[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH:
How many times
have we found
ourselves complaining
that we have no energy?
When we feel sluggish, the
voltage in our cell is sub par.
And if it goes on long enough,
we have chronic disease.
Dr. Jerry Tennant brought
himself back to life
with one little dog cuddled
around his head and one
at his spleen,
and he'll tell you
he was using their voltage to
recover from a serious illness.
Since then, he's done
breakthrough work
in helping medical
professionals understand
that healing is a
matter of voltage,
and our body is the battery.
And this is really a very
simple, but revolutionary, way
to look at healing.
And I know there are others--
the body electric and such--
who've gone before
you and written
lovely books on the subject.
But you've put it in--
you've put it down in a way
that the lay person can
actually understand.
This is a battery, and
when the voltage runs low--
if it runs too low-- we're gone.
>>DR. JERRY TENNANT:
That's exactly right.
And I think in order to
understand this paradigm,
we have to talk a little bit
about some electronic terms
and bring them into a way
you can understand them.
>>REGINA: OK, let's
start with you.
You got sick, and
then we're going
to back into the
science part of it, OK?
>>DR. TENNANT: All right.
Let's do it.
>>REGINA: OK.
Let's talk about you.
And also, you didn't
write this book
as an M.D. Let's just
talk about what humanity
is up against right now in
the Western world in even
trying to find any sensible
ways of healing ourselves.
Which is goes back
to the statement
I made-- you didn't
write this as an M.D.
You wrote it under the auspices
of a license pastoral health
practitioner.
Let's just talk about
that part first.
>>DR. TENNANT: Sure.
Well most people think that if
some university does studies
and proves that something is a
useful treatment that doctors
can read those studies
and automatically
start using that for their
patients, but that's incorrect.
In this country, we
have what's called
standard of care medicine.
And what has happened is
that various positions
have gotten around
tables and decided
that for this diagnosis, it
must be treated this way.
And so your physician, each
time they make a diagnosis,
must write down a diagnosis
code which activates
the standard of care treatment.
So standard of care
treatment may not
be exactly what
you want, but it's
what your physician must do
or lose his or her license.
So for example, one of
my friends in Dallas
had a heart attack and
was in the hospital,
and the next morning they
brought a bunch of pills in
and he said what's
that pill for.
And the nurse said, well that's
to lower your blood pressure.
And he said, well
why blood pressure.
It's 90 over 50.
If you lower it any
more, I'll pass out.
>>REGINA: You'll be dead.
>>DR. TENNANT: She
said, it doesn't matter.
It's standard of
care that anybody
who comes into the hospital
has to have blood pressure
medicine.
He said, well what's
that other pill for.
She said, that's the
lower your cholesterol.
So what is my cholesterol?
I don't know, we
haven't measured it.
So why do I have to
take a cholesterol pill?
Because it's standard of care.
So the point is
that once someone
proves that something
works, then they
get that published in journals.
But then they have
to go to the FDA
and basically
purchase from the FDA
the right to say that it works.
>>REGINA: But the whole notion
that it works to begin with
is flawed.
When you get into
the original studies,
oftentimes they're flawed.
>>DR. TENNANT: That's true.
But--
>>REGINA: Just
because they say it
work-- that's a
whole other subject,
but it doesn't mean it actually
does work for most people.
>>DR. TENNANT: That's correct.
So if we could do this
train of thought, and then
I would like to comment on that.
So let's assume that I find
some way to magically cure
x disease, then I can't have
a physician start using that.
What I have to do is that
I have to go to the FDA
and pay millions of dollars over
a period of usually five years
or more to get them to
say, OK now you can--
we give you the permission
to say that it works.
And then once the
FDA approves it,
you still have to get it as
part of standard of care.
So if a physician
tries to use something
that is not standard
of care, the physician
often loses their license.
And so that's a real
roadblock to progress
in medicine in this country.
Now the second one
that you mentioned
has to do with the way
medical studies are reported.
So let me give you an example.
Let's say that six people out
of 100 have athlete's foot.
What percentage is that?
>>BOTH: 6%.
>>DR. TENNANT:
That's easy enough.
Now we give one group of
them green jelly beans,
and we discover that only three
out of 100 have athlete's foot.
So that's 3%, isn't it?
So you would assume that one
would say in your article
or in your medical
journal that that's
a 3% reduction in
athlete's foot.
But it's not reported that way,
it's reported as relative risk.
And since three
is 50% of six, it
will be reported that
green jelly beans reduce
athlete's foot by 50%.
Well obviously that's sort
of true, but not really true.
It's a great way
to deceive people.
Every single medical
journal now reports
things in relative risk.
So now let's expand that
out of a little bit.
Let's say that you have two
people out of 10,000 have
a problem, and then you do
some treatment and one person
out of 10,000 as a problem.
Again, that's 0.0001%
absolute risk reduction.
It'll still be reported
as a 50% reduction.
And so when you read
journal articles
and say that
something works, you
have to go back and
look at the real numbers
because the summary that
the authors give says,
green jelly beans
worked 50% of the time.
That's exactly what happened
with cholesterol drugs.
If you look at-- if you read
the cholesterol studies-- which
I've done, I spent a couple
of years reading them--
you'll find that
the absolute risk
reduction for coronary
artery disease
is somewhere between 1% and 3%.
And yet, all of the articles
say that the relative risk
reduction is somewhere in the
neighborhood of 50%, or even
75%--
>>REGINA: That's so deceitful.
>>DR. TENNANT: And
that's why doctors
insist that if you have anything
that even suggests that you
might have a
circulatory problem,
you must get on these drugs.
But the reality is is that
the side effects of drugs
are much higher
than the benefits.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>DR. TENNANT:
That's the problem.
>>REGINA: And even in
the world of medicine,
when they're being honest,
the subject of cholesterol
itself is extremely complex in
that high numbers in one person
is a perfectly healthy
level for another person.
It might have some kind
of negative impact,
and yet to just do this skewed
way of presenting information,
in addition to the nuance
of each individual body,
makes it absolutely worthless.
>>DR. TENNANT: Well if
you read the studies, what
you find is that-- and look
at them as a whole-- one
person out of 2000 is benefited
by reducing cholesterol
by any means whatsoever--
whether it's diet,
or drugs, or anything else.
>>REGINA: One out of 2,000.
>>DR. TENNANT: Only
one out of 2000.
And yet, higher
than 70% of people
will have musculoskeletal
symptoms from these drugs.
It doubles the risk of you
dying from congestive heart
failure, et cetera, et cetera.
And you have to remember
this-- all of your hormones,
with the exception of
thyroid and adrenalin,
are made from cholesterol.
So if you stop your body's
ability to make cholesterol,
then you're not going to have
an adequate amount of hormones.
Do you think hormones
are important?
Most people do.
>>REGINA: Yes.
Thank you for hitting
on that topic.
There are a few other-- there's
just a couple of others,
actually, before we start
getting into your subject
that I wanted to touch
on because these were
in your book, and I thought
because of the demographic
of our audience, they
would find it interesting.
One of them is mammograms.
Talk to us about the
reality behind mammograms.
>>DR. TENNANT: Well most of the
best studies about mammograms
have been done in Europe, and
that has been largely done
in the Scandinavian countries.
The results vary somewhat, but
the end message is the same.
And that is, for
example, one of the study
showed that if you have a
mammogram every other year
for 15 years it saves
one breast cancer death,
but increases breast cancer
deaths overall four times.
In what?
One of 100, you're saying?
Or, one out of what?
>>DR. TENNANT: No.
If you-- basically, the answer
is that if you have a mammogram
every other year for 15 years,
you're four times more likely
to die from breast cancer
than if you didn't.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DR. TENNANT: So
one of the problems
with early screening
of cancer of any kind--
whether you're talking about
breast, or prostate, or colon,
or whatever-- is
that we don't really
know the date that cancer
began in any given person.
And we don't actually have
the best data-- particularly
for an individual
person-- that if nothing
were done for that cancer,
it started on this date
and you died on the state.
So why is that important?
Because they say that if
you catch it early that
it reduces the number of deaths,
but that may not be true.
In fact, it's probably not true.
Particularly with the
treatments that are being given.
So the idea that,
oh I caught it early
and it's going to reduce
my likelihood of dying--
the statistics
don't bear that out.
If you look at the
cancer death statistics
from the National
Cancer Institute
from 1930 to the latest one that
I've seen-- which is, I think,
2005 or so-- the number
of people per 1,000
dying from any type of cancer
has been basically straight
line since 1930.
Now there have been
some reductions and--
>>REGINA: Per capita, yeah.
>>DR. TENNANT: Some reductions
in, say, stomach cancer,
but there have been
increases in other cancers
like uterine cancer and so on.
So there are a few
outliers, but basically
the number of people
dying from cancer
has not changed since 1930.
>>REGINA: With all
these invasive,
expensive, ghastly treatments.
>>DR. TENNANT: And
of course, if you
look at the way they spin
it, they talk about more
and more people are
living after a cancer
diagnosis with the spin
that, oh we're getting
better treating it.
No, we're not getting
better at treating it
it's just that more
people have cancer.
And therefore, more people
are alive after having
had that diagnosis.
>>REGINA: Well, and also
there's the x factor
of all those people that
are living with cancer all
the time.
And one case I
remember reading about
was a man who wouldn't go
the doctor-- not unusual,
especially in the senior--
among seniors from the past.
Just, hey leave me alone.
I'm doing just fine.
He went through his
life and he was fine.
Well, by the time
he died, there was
something that
indicated an autopsy
and the man had very large
cancerous growth in his lung.
He wasn't aware of
it, he lived his life,
and he lived out to a good,
normal, kind of older age.
Now that same man--
that cancer may
have growing for 20
years in that spot.
>>DR. TENNANT: Yeah.
And again, if you look at this
idea of early cancer screening,
the subject of prostate
cancer comes to the fore.
Both the United States and
the European common market
decided to do studies
about that subject.
And so, they looked at men
who had a PSA test done
at least every
other year and they
compared those against what they
considered usual care-- which
meant they may or may not
have gotten anything done.
And then they
looked at the number
of men who died
from prostate cancer
after a long period of time.
And in both the European
and American studies,
the number of men dying
from prostate cancer
was the same-- 0.7%.
But the difference
between the two groups
is that those who
had a PSA test done,
and if they were
positive, had a biopsy.
And if that was
positive, then they had--
>>REGINA: Radical treatment.
>>DR. TENNANT:
--radical treatment,
that group had the side effects
of urinary incontinence,
sexual lack of performance,
all of those kinds--
plus just the fear and
stress that comes with,
hey I've got cancer, versus
the man who did nothing.
So what it showed
was that-- in both
the European and
American studies--
that your risk of dying
from prostate cancer
was not improved if
you did PSA tests.
And that's why most of
the European countries
now have banned the
use of that test.
Of course, the other interesting
thing about the PSA test
is that it's said to be a
prostate specific antigen,
but it's certainly not because
the test is positive in women.
And the fellow who invented
the test, who discovered
how to do it, actually published
an article in, I think,
the New York Times where
he stated his disgust
at how his test had been
abused because he said,
basically, it's not a
good predictive test
for prostate cancer.
In fact, it's a test for fungus.
>>REGINA: Really?
Well then it gets into a
whole other subject regarding
fungus cancer and so forth.
>>DR. TENNANT: Of course.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>DR. TENNANT: But the point
is that the standard of care
says that if you're over 40
you get a PSA test every year,
and if it's positive you
get thrown into the system.
But that's not
what the European--
the large European and
the large NIH study showed
is what the science.
>>REGINA: Thank you
for sharing that.
>>DR. TENNANT: You're welcome.
>>REGINA: I'm glad I asked.
OK.
And I don't get into the-- I
was going ask you-- go ahead.
Yeah.
>>DR. TENNANT: You
hinted at this,
but I want to say this openly.
Any time I give
lectures or interviews,
I always discuss the
fact that I'm not
talking with my M.D. license.
But rather, I'm talking
under the umbrella
of a private
expressive association.
And the reason is that
in all states-- including
my state of Texas-- if I
give recommendations that
are other than
standard of care, I'll
be in trouble with my board.
So I'm not going to-- I'm
not speaking as an M.D.,
I'm speaking as a practitioner
under a private expressive
association.
>>REGINA: OK, so we'll call
you Jerry instead of doctor.
>>DR. TENNANT:
That works for me.
>>REGINA: Right, Jerry.
We really have more than two
or three hours of material
to do in one hour, so
I'm going to pass over
a little bit of
this and really want
to start jumping into
the notion of voltage.
So up till now, the
standard medical model
is a chemical model in going
after whatever ails the body.
Let's talk about
that, and then let's
talk about why that
needs to be reviewed,
and the electrical model.
>>DR. TENNANT:
Well the reality is
that if you have two
hydrogen ions that
want to buddy up with
an oxygen to make water,
what's the first thing they do?
Exchange electrons.
The exchanging of electrons is
called physics, or electronics.
So basically, in
all of chemistry,
it is first physics before
it becomes chemistry.
But perhaps even
though that is true,
it doesn't really,
I think, give you
the concept that you need to
understand about the importance
of voltage in the body.
So here's the basic thing
that you have to The body
is constantly
wearing itself out,
and so we're constantly having
to make new cells to replace
those that are worn out.
So you get new cells in
the macular of your eye
every 48 hours, the
lining of your guts
replaced every three days, the
skin you're sitting in today
is six weeks old, your
liver's eight weeks old,
your nervous system's
eight months old.
So we're constantly
wearing ourselves out.
>>REGINA: And
renewing ourselves.
>>DR. TENNANT: Yeah.
So a chronic disease
of any kind only
occurs when you lose the ability
to make new cells at work.
That's important enough,
I'd like to say it again.
Chronic disease only occurs
when you lose the ability
to make new cells at work.
If you can't maintain yourself
as you wear yourself out,
guess what?
You get sick.
Well that easily draws us
to the question-- what's
it to make new cells at work?
Well, our cells are designed
to run at minus 25 millivolts
of energy.
To make a new cell requires
minus 50 millivolts.
So very basic for
making new cells
is having the energy,
the voltage, to do it.
But in addition,
you have to have
all of the parts it
takes to make a cell.
So the inside of cells
are made from amino acids.
So what's the body's
source of amino acids?
Stomach acid.
The way the body is designed is
that, when you eat a protein,
stomach acid breaks those
proteins into amino acids
and now those are available
to make the inside of cells.
But if you don't
have stomach acid,
you can't keep
yourself maintained.
So what's it take to
make stomach acid?
Vitamin B1, iodine, zinc,
salt, and the voltage to do it.
Now the outside
of cells are made
of fats, very special
fats, called phospholipids.
But fats, nevertheless.
So what does it take to
absorb and make fats?
You have to have bile.
The liver makes a quart
and a half of bile a day,
so it needs a storage tank.
The storage tank
is the gallbladder.
So you have a
gallbladder full of bile
ready to dump into the digestive
process so you can absorb fat.
But what tells the
liver to make bile,
and the gallbladder to dump
it into the digestive process?
Our old friend, stomach acid.
When stomach acid hits
the small intestine,
it causes the release of a
hormone called cholecystokinin.
Well that funky word means--
chole means gall, cyst means
bladder, kinin means move.
Gallbladder move hormone.
So when stomach acid hits the
small intestine, that hormone's
released, makes the
liver make bile,
the gallbladder
squeezes some out.
No stomach acid,
no cholecystokinin.
No cholecystokinin, no bile.
No bile, can't absorb fats.
Now you become deficient in all
your fat soluble vitamins-- A,
D, E, and K. So we have to have
our old friend stomach acid.
Well then you have to have
vitamins and minerals.
Vitamins and minerals are under
control of a substance called
fulvic-- F-U-L-V-I-C.
>>REGINA: Which,
really, has only
risen to the forefront
in the last decade or so
of our awareness.
Talk about what fulvic
is and what humic is.
>>DR. TENNANT: In medicine it
is, but not in agriculture.
It's been around a long time.
>>REGINA: Right, right.
In medicine.
>>DR. TENNANT: Well, if I may,
let me finish what cells need
and then I want to come back
around to talk about fulvic.
So cells need-- we've said need
amino acids, they need fats,
and they need vitamins
and minerals-- which
is under control of fulvic.
Well then you also
need oxygen. Now
one of the interesting
things about oxygen
is the amount of oxygen that
will dissolve in a liquid
is dictated by the
voltage of the liquid.
Our cells about 70%-- some
people say as much as 90%--
water.
So if a cell is going to be
able to have oxygen available,
it has to have
enough voltage there.
But if the voltage
is low, the oxygen
won't go into solution because
if I took this cup of water
and I put a tube in it and
it started bubbling oxygen
in there-- if I raise
the voltage of the water,
more oxygen goes into solution.
If I lower the voltage of the
water, the oxygen comes out
and the solution disappears.
So in our cells, if the
voltage drops oxygen goes away.
So that's a problem.
So you have to have
voltage in your cell
to get oxygen into it.
But you also have to have
oxygen in the neighborhood.
You can have normal
voltage, but if there's
no oxygen in your
neighborhood there's
no oxygen in the neighborhood.
So that's under the
control of nitrate oxide.
So we need to have
nitric oxide available
so we can have
oxygen. And if you
look at the natural
curve of nitric oxide,
essentially everyone in this
country, past the age of 40,
is deficient in nitric oxide.
So we have to take that
as a supplement of being
able to make that as well.
You also have to have water,
and water inside of cells
isn't H2O.
It's a special kind
of water, H3O2,
which Dr. Pollack the
fourth phase of water.
But it's an electron
donor form of water,
and so how do we get--
>>REGINA: And he's done
breakthrough work--
this is Gerald, right?
Gerald Pollack?
>>DR. TENNANT: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>DR. TENNANT: So how
is the primary way
that we make kind of water?
Infrared light.
So where do we find
infrared light?
Outdoors.
So if we pretend
that we are moles
and spend our whole life
indoors or inside our car,
we don't get that dose of
infrared light that we need.
We need to be outdoors.
So those are the
primary things it takes
to make a cell that works.
But then we also have to look
at the third thing, and that
is are there things
hanging around
that will damage cells
as fast as we make them.
Yes.
And the most common things
that damage cells fast-- and we
make them-- are toxins
from dental infections,
and heavy metals like mercury,
cadmium, lead, et cetera.
There are others, obviously, but
those are the most common ones
that we've run into.
So we've been going
down this scenario
of what it takes to
make a cell because we
began this the conversation
of the role of voltage.
So we'll get back to the
voltage in just a moment
after I answer your
fulvic question.
Now fungus is amazingly
important to our planet.
>>REGINA: It is indeed.
>>DR. TENNANT: If it
were not for fungus,
we would all be
over our eyeballs
in dead leaves and dead animals
because the job of fungus
is to take dead, organic
material and turn it into dirt.
So if you think about a
leaf that's on a tree,
it's covered with fungal spores.
But because the leaf is
alive, it has voltage.
And therefore, it has oxygen.
Now the leaf dies and
falls off the tree,
the voltage goes
away because it's
no longer attached to
the tree, and therefore
the oxygen goes away.
And that's the
signal for the fungus
to wake up and turn
that leaf into dirt.
Well, the dirt is actually a
collection of organic acids
called humic-- H-U-M-I-C.
And one of the humic acids is
fulvic-- F-U-L-V-I-C-- and
they work hand in hand,
but in different ways.
So they're sitting there in
the dirt, the wind blows a seed
in, they get a little rain.
So now the fulvic opens
the pores on the seed,
the humic and the fulvic go
in, and that's the signal
for the seed to start growing.
And now it grows into
a nice plant that's
full of humic and fulvic,
so we harvest that plant,
we eat, it now we have the
humic and fulvic we need.
But the problem is the farmer
practices in this country
have eliminated that cycle.
>>REGINA: That's just what
I was going to ask you, yes.
>>DR. TENNANT: So we use
pesticides, and fungicides,
and genetically
modified foods so
that the fungus doesn't exist.
So eventually, our soil runs
out of humic and fulvic,
so now the seeds won't grow.
So then we put fertilizer
on, so now the seed will grow
but they don't have
humic and fulvic
of any consequence in them.
So now we harvest
those foods, and now we
run out of humic and fulvic
and so our cell membranes can't
work correctly because fulvic is
one of the primary things that
monitors the cell
membrane as to what gets
and what doesn't get in.
Plus, the interesting
thing about humic
is it has every known
vitamin, every known mineral,
every known amino acid.
>>REGINA: It's the Earth.
>>DR. TENNANT: It's the Earth.
So, fortunately for us,
there are some deposits
around the world where dead,
organic material was wet enough
that it didn't turn into coal.
And that dead, organic
material is basically
mines of humic and fulvic.
And so it's possible to
go and mine that and then
turn it into a nutrient or
supplement that we can take.
>>REGINA: And some companies are
doing-- some people, companies,
are doing that.
>>DR. TENNANT: Exactly.
And so that's the way
that we can overcome that.
Just as, for example, we
talked about nitric oxide,
Dr. Nathan Brian is
a brilliant scientist
at Texas Heart
Institute in Houston
who is the first
person to ever develop
his system for measuring
the nitric oxide in person,
and also a tablet that you
can put on your tongue that,
within six minutes, restores
your nitric oxide levels.
So--
>>REGINA: What is
his name again?
>>DR. TENNANT: Nathan
Brian is Dr. Brian's name,
and his product is
Neo-40-- N-E-O-40.
It's an amazing product that I
put every patient past 40 on.
So basically, it
fixes circulation.
Guess what?
Every little child knows
that grandma has cold hands.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>DR. TENNANT: The reason?
No nitric oxide.
Fix it in six minutes.
>>REGINA: That's beautiful.
OK.
Now when-- OK.
Let's look at the ways
in which our body starts
losing its voltage, commonly.
In the way we live,
the foods we eat,
certain foods
that, in your book,
you write very
descriptively-- you
have wonderful little
graphics and such as well
to help the lay person
get it-- where electrons
are being donated
and where electrons
are being given or stolen.
And I think it'd be really
important for us to start
learning that part of this.
>>DR. TENNANT: Well to
understand how the body works
electronically, you first
have to understand its battery
system and its wiring system.
The human body is a
portable electronic device.
And all portable electronic
devices need a battery,
don't they?
Well it turns out
that our muscles are
rechargeable batteries,
and they're also
what's called Pizeoelectric.
And that funny word means
that if you take something
and stress it, and
it emits electrons,
that's called Piezoelectricity.
So when I do my arm like
this, I'm stressing my muscles
and they're
generating electrons.
Unfortunately, my muscles are
also rechargeable batteries.
And so when I'm doing this, I'm
recharging my muscle batteries.
Our muscles are surrounded by a
white, fibrous substance called
the fascia.
All of us have seen that at
Christmas and Thanksgiving
time when we carve the turkey.
All that shiny stuff around
the muscles is call fascia.
Now fascia is a semiconductor.
So what's a semiconductor?
A semiconductor is
simply an arrangement
of molecules that
allows electrons
to move at the speed of
light through them, but only
in one direction.
So our muscles are surrounded by
this fascia, which is basically
the body's wiring system.
And so we can move electrons
from the batteries, which
are our muscles, to places we
need them, to whatever organ
we need them, at
the speed light.
That's why if you put an
essential oil on your big toe,
it's in your brain that
quick because it sends the--
>>REGINA: It's
through the fascia.
>>DR. TENNANT:
--through the fascia.
Well now I have to talk a
little bit about acupuncture.
>>REGINA: Yes, that's--
>>DR. TENNANT: For a very long
time, nobody's really known
want an acupuncture
meridian was,
and there all sorts of
theories about what they are,
but here's my take on that.
Every organ in the body
has its own battery pack.
Let me say that once more.
Every single organ in the
body has its own battery pack.
And that battery pack
is a very specific stack
of individual muscles.
So our muscles are stacked
together, hooked together,
very much like you
putting several batteries
in a flashlight.
And so, for example, if you
want to think about the battery
pack for my heart, it starts
here my little finger,
goes up-- its these muscles-- it
goes up here, goes over there,
goes around to my shoulder,
goes into my heart.
That's the battery
pack for my heart,
and that is called the
heart acupuncture meridian.
So an acupuncture
meridian is simply
a stack of muscle batteries.
>>REGINA: If I
can-- this is just
kind of an aside, but on point.
30 years ago, I
was tracking down
energy and medicine
in Europe, and I
did a story with a man named
Dr. Jean Claude Darras who,
at that time, was a hero in
Asia because what he had done
is they have these
acupuncture meridian
charts that they'd
used historically,
but there was no proof.
You couldn't open it up
and look at it as you could
our circulatory system.
And what he did was he
proved the existence of this
by shooting radioactive isotopes
into one of the meridians
and watching the migration
patterns-- the speed where they
went-- and then all bore out.
This meridian system
you're talking about
is a physical reality.
I just bring that up
to say it has been done
in the Western medical model.
>>DR. TENNANT: Yeah.
So what happens then is when
we want to consider an illness,
we must consider
its power supply.
So you tell me you
have angina, then
I know that you have low
voltage in the battery pack
that supplies voltage
to your heart.
And so all I have
to do, then, is
go figure out why is the voltage
low in that battery pack.
Or another way of
saying it-- why
can't the battery pack for
your heart maintain a charge?
Maintain a voltage-- it's
charge-- because if it could,
then, almost certainly, you
would repair your heart.
You'd make new cells at work,
and your heart would work fine.
So then what one
has to do, then,
is go through sort
of a checklist
and say, OK what are the
things that are affecting
that particular circuit.
Now one of things you also
have to begin to realize
is that all of the
acupuncture circuits
began in either a
hand or a foot, and--
>>REGINA: Those are
like the terminus.
>>DR. TENNANT: Yeah, that's
basically where-- Yeah.
Where it starts.
>>REGINA: And the
ears, too, right?
>>DR. TENNANT: That's the
first battering in the pack.
>>REGINA: First
battery in the pack.
OK.
>>DR. TENNANT: And
so it runs up a leg,
but it goes all the way
to the top-- to the brain.
Or it starts in the fingers,
and it comes up all the way
to the brain on its way
to wherever it goes.
And on its way
through the skull,
it goes through
very specific teeth.
So, for example, one of the
more important cir-- by the way,
you have a circuit that goes
up and one that goes back down.
So the spleen stomach--
the spleen circuit
starts in your big toe,
goes all the way up
to the frontal
lobes of the brain,
hooks on to what's called
the stomach circuit,
and goes all the way
back down to the foot.
Now the spleen
stomach circuit is
one of the more important
circuits in the body,
in my view, because
it's the battery
pack for the entire
reproductive system,
for all of the endocrine system,
and for the frontal lobes
of the brain.
>>REGINA: That's important.
>>DR. TENNANT: Including
the maculars of your eye.
So, for example, when
the spleen circuit
comes up and gets to the
frontal lobes of your brain
and switches over to
the stomach circuit,
it's the power supply
to the macular.
So if you have a patient
with macular degeneration,
guess what?
It always has low
voltage-- stomach circuit.
>>REGINA: OK.
Let me just ask
you at this point.
Are you indicating, then,
that acupuncture would be
one of the primary paths, then?
>>DR. TENNANT: Well look,
acupuncture, historically,
was sticking a
needle into a spot
and noticing that it changed
the health of that person.
But my view on that is that
a needle acts like an antenna
and takes some
electrons out of the air
and goes through that-- it helps
recharge that battery pack.
Now certainly when I
was in China in 1978,
a very long time ago, what
they would do is put them in
and they would still clip on
to them with electric power
sources because
it's more efficient.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DR. TENNANT: We found, of
course, you don't need needles.
You could very easily-- if you
have the appropriate waveform
and the appropriate frequency,
you can easily recharge
the battery packs with electrode
devices, like my biomodulator--
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>>REGINA: Right.
You created one
for that purpose.
>>DR. TENNANT:
--just recharges it.
And so you have to be
careful when you're
talking about
acupuncture and you're
saying that the most
efficient way to treat
macular degeneration, for
example, is with needles.
No.
The most efficient
way is figure out
why the stomach has low voltage.
But while you're figuring it
out and fixing it, plug into--
>>REGINA: Give it a little
bit of extra voltage.
>>DR. TENNANT: --terminals
because all of our battery
packs in our body have specific
areas that are terminals,
like the terminals
on your car battery,
where you would go
clamp in to recharge it.
We have specific ones.
>>REGINA: So it's
a starting place?
>>DR. TENNANT: Yeah.
So you recharge
the battery pack,
and then while you're
doing it you're
answering the question-- why was
it that this battery pack could
not hold its charge?
Well, a common one is
hyperthyroidism thyroid hormone
T3 controls the voltage
of every cell membrane--
>>REGINA: And isn't
that an epidemic now?
>>DR. TENNANT: Yes.
And T2 controls the voltage
of the mitochondria.
So you have to look
at T3 in particular,
and unfortunately most
blood tests for a thyroid
do not look there.
They look at either T4,
or, even worse, at TSH.
TSH is the least reliable
of the thyroid tests,
even though it's the one
that is standard of care.
So you have to look
at hyperthyroidism.
Next thing you have
to look at is scars.
So because the fascia
is a wiring system,
if you put a scar
across and it goes down
and touches the fascia, it
creates a short or a ground.
And so it drains off
some of the voltage,
just like leaving the
dome light on in your car.
And what you'll see is that,
commonly, a scar is not
sufficient to cause
an organ to fail,
but it is sufficient
to turn off the pump
inside of a tooth that keeps
the tooth from getting decay.
And so what happens is that
a kid falls off their bike
and they get a scar across their
knee-- which is, by the way,
the spleen and stomach
circuit-- and within the year,
they have decay in the molar
on that side-- upper molar
or lower premolar--
because those
are the teeth in that circuit.
Every tooth has a
pump inside of it
that pumps fluid into the
mouth so that bacteria
can't get into the tooth.
Well if you shut that pump
down, now you get decay.
Decay is more due
to pump failure
than it is due to
eating too many sweets.
That was proven at the
dental school in Loma Linda.
So what happens is that you fall
off your bike, you get a scar,
a year later you've got a
filling, a few years after that
you get a bigger filling,
a few years after that you
get bigger filling, a few years
after that you get a crown.
And soon after
you get the crown,
you get decay under
the crown which
the dentist can't see because
the X-rays won't go through it.
>>REGINA: Then you
have a root canal.
>>DR. TENNANT: Then
you have a root canal.
One root canal shuts down
63% of your immune system
and I just got through reviewing
the last 50 cases of cancer
that I've seen in my office.
95% of them had a dental
infection, usually
a root canal, in the
same acupressure circuit
as their primary cancer.
So the thing that's worst
about dropping the voltage
in a circuit-- we
didn't say this before,
but-- when you go from minus
25 millivolts of electron donor
and go to zero, and
then go to plus 30
millivolts of electron stealer,
that's where cancer occurs.
Cancer occurs at
plus 30 millivolts.
>>REGINA: OK.
Let's go back to the kids-- the
kid with the cut on the knee.
Now these things are inevitable.
To a certain extent
in life, we're
going to have a few
scars here and there.
How does one pump the voltage
back up in the presence
a scar tissue?
>>DR. TENNANT:
Well first of all,
it's pretty easy to fix a
scar if you know how to do it.
If you have a
scar, first of all,
the way that you know that
it's shorting out the system
is that you have the person
make a ring like that
and you see that they're strong.
Then you have them
touch the scar
and you see that when
they're touching this car
they go weak because
what's happening
is the scar's created
a short or a ground
and when you touch that,
the whole body goes weak.
So now we know that
the scars a problem.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>DR. TENNANT: And
then we've identified
what circuit it's
taken out, so we
use that information to
go look at the-- which
tooth is going to
have decay in it.
But then if we simply put a
special essential oil on that,
and then use the
magnetic field of things
like my biotransducer over
that for three minutes,
it will realign the molecules.
And the way you fixed
it is now you touch it
and you're strong--
>>REGINA: Test it again.
And that holds?
>>DR. TENNANT: Yes.
We keep looking at our
patients every year.
They come back,
look at their scars.
We've had two or three
we've had to redo,
but most always it
stays once you fix it.
>>REGINA: OK, let
me ask you this.
What-- because it's so
common, it's electoral now.
I mean, I don't even know
what percentage of births
come in through Cesarean.
What happens with a
horizontal cesarean scar,
since they're horizontal now.
>>DR. TENNANT: Well you just
have to ask the question,
what acupuncture battery
pack did you cut through.
>>REGINA: That's I'm asking.
It's a big cut.
>>DR. TENNANT: And the
answer is that in the middle
here-- this big
muscle that you can
feel in the middle like that--
is called erectus abdominis
muscle, and that's
the stomach meridian.
And then to the side of
it, and a bit deeper,
is the muscle that's
the kidney right here.
So when you have
a Cesarean scar,
you have usually
blocked the voltage
in both the stomach and
the kidney circuits.
>>REGINA: OK.
And now, again, these
things can be reversed.
You can increase
the voltage, again,
through-- as you
say-- using, like,
an essential oil in a device
like your biomodulator.
I don't know.
Are scenar or other
scenar devices similar?
>>DR. TENNANT: Well
they have-- you know,
a Ford car is similar
to you a Cadillac,
but they're not the same.
>>REGINA: Right.
Yeah, there are degrees.
>>DR. TENNANT: There are
degrees in how they work in what
frequencies and so forth.
So there are similarities.
But--
>>REGINA: Because
most people haven't
heard of any of these things.
>>DR. TENNANT: And there are
other ways that people do this.
For example, some people teach
to used mud packs on them.
Which works, but it
takes a very long time.
You put the mud pack on
for 20 or 30 minutes,
and you have to repeat
that 10 or 20 times.
Whereas this other way,
you can almost always
get it done in three
to five minutes,
and then it's permanent.
>>REGINA: OK.
So even the worst
kind of scarring,
such as that, that's
cutting through your major--
>>DR. TENNANT: OK.
So we look at thyroid,
we look at scars,
and then we look at teeth.
>>REGINA: So let's say
you've had two or three root
canals now.
You're older, you've
had a few root canals.
Now what?
>>DR. TENNANT: Well,
first of all, the dentists
are the only
physicians that believe
you can get away with living
and dead tissue in the body.
No other doctor believes that.
And of course, the way
you do a root canal is
you drill a hole in
the top of the teeth,
you reach an auger
in, and you twist
it and you rip out the
artery and rip out the nerve
and kill the teeth.
So you've got a dead
tooth in your body.
Now, the dentists
delude themselves
to think that if they shine
a laser down in there,
or they put various
chemicals down in there,
or various other
fillers down in there,
that you can
sterilize the tooth.
Well, that's wishful thinking
because, first of all,
a tooth like a molar has
three miles of little tubules
through it.
There's no way
that you can shine
a laser down the
middle of a tooth
and sterilize three
miles of tubules.
In addition, the
roots at the bottom
are still attached
to the blood vessels
and the lymphatic system.
So there's still a pathway for
bacteria to come back up in.
So there was a very nice
study done by the Japanese,
actually, where
they took people who
were going to have wisdom teeth
pulled and they did a root
canal on one side and
then they waited 150 days
and pulled both teeth.
And the tooth that
had the root canal, 60
some percent of the little
canals were infected.
Whereas in the tooth where
nothing was done, only 1%
of the tubules were infected.
So you can see that even a
well done root canal leaves you
with an infected tooth.
>>REGINA: OK.
So now what do you do?
>>DR. TENNANT: And
a work by Boyd Haley
at the University
of Kentucky has
shown the one root
canal tooth shuts down
63% of your immune system.
>>REGINA: That's bad.
>>DR. TENNANT: So--
>>REGINA: OK.
Go ahead.
I was going to
say, so some people
are aware of some
of this information.
So they're deciding
to have a tooth pulled
and have an implant put in.
>>DR. TENNANT: Well the point
is that-- the bottom line,
you have to get the
infection out your mouth.
>>REGINA: How do you do that?
>>DR. TENNANT: Because
what Dr. Haley has shown
is that the kinds of
toxins in a root canal
are equivalent in
toxicity to the standard
by which all human
toxins are measured,
namely hydrogen sulfide.
Or another way of saying it
is that the toxins coming out
of a root canal tooth are
equal in poison to botulism.
So what you have to
do is-- first of all,
it's my opinion that if
you have a root canal tooth
you have to get rid of it.
If you're big toe dies and
you leave it there, guess
what happens?
>>REGINA: Gangrene.
>>DR. TENNANT: If your appendix
dies and you leave it there,
guess what happens?
So I have personal
experience with this.
I had a root canal,
tooth number 14,
which is in my spleen meridian.
That one tooth put me
in bed for seven years
and caused a bleeding disorder.
>>REGINA: That's the
part of the story
we didn't get to with your
little doggies hugging
your bad spots.
>>DR. TENNANT: Yeah.
And so a normal platelet
count is 150 to 350.
Mine dropped to 30.
And 48 hours after I had
that root canal tooth pulled,
and the infection taken
out of the bone around it,
my bleeding disorder was cured.
So the point is that
you just can't over
emphasize how terribly
toxic root canals are.
Now if you go back in time
to the work of Weston Price--
>>REGINA: Yes?
>>DR. TENNANT: Weston
Price was a dentist who
suspected that this
would be the case,
and so he would pull a
tooth and he would embed it
under the skin of a rabbit.
And within a week, the
rabbit had the same illness
as the person who
owned the tooth.
So if a person came in
with crippling arthritis,
within a week the rabbit would
have crippling arthritis.
>>REGINA: It's all there
in the teeth, in the roots.
>>DR. TENNANT: It's all there.
And he even went so
far-- well he did this
300 and some
times-- so it wasn't
like he did it once or twice--
and then he would pull a tooth
and put it in saline
in a sterile container
and let it sit there for a week.
And then he would
take the saline
and run it through a filter, and
then take the filtered solution
and inject it in the
rabbit and the rabbit
would still get the disease.
So all of these
poisons coming out
of the teeth-- I've actually
come to the position
that I believe that if a
person has a chronic illness,
they are better advised
to go to the dentist
before they go to
their family practice
stop because almost
every person who
comes into my office who's
sick is sick at least in part
by the dental problem,
dental infections.
And I've come to see
that if a person has
a dental infection, no matter
what I do it doesn't work.
It will not overcome
a dental infection.
That's how terribly toxic
and important they are.
But the problem is, of
course, that the dental boards
get after any dentist
who wants to practice
in this sort of way.
Dentists who go in
and pull root canals
are in jeopardy of losing
their license because-- well
just to give you an
example, I was teaching
at a dental conference
in Houston last year
and it was reported
at that meeting
that the dean of a
nearby dental school
called all of his students
together and said,
there's going to be a
dental meeting in town
this next weekend.
If I find out any of you go, you
will be expelled from school.
So I can't prove that
that's true or not true,
but that was what was
said at the meeting.
But the point is, there
is tremendous pressure
from medical boards and dental
boards to do root canals
and not pull them.
>>REGINA: OK.
So I was going to
ask this a bit ago.
I'll ask now.
So let's say someone's
listening to this
and they say, holy cow I
want to get rid of that.
So you go to your dentist
and say, pull the tooth.
But you don't want
to be toothless,
so they're going-- the
next line of defense
is usually an implant.
Then what?
>>DR. TENNANT: Well,
here's the issue.
If this is the size of
where your tooth was and you
pull the tooth and there's no
infection there, no problem.
You can just put a screw in
there, namely an implant.
But you pull the
tooth and all of this
is infection, so now
you clean out all this--
and the infection bone
will be mushy bone,
so you clean out
all that mushy bone
and now the hole's that big.
So you can't screw
an implant in there.
>>REGINA: Oh, you just put
cement in there, don't you?
>>DR. TENNANT: Put in cement.
So what you have to do is--
what the really up to date
dentists do is-- first of
all, because bone is very
porous like a sponge and
because the blood supply in bone
is not very good--
that is to say,
you can't usually get
rid of bone infections
with antibiotics-- what
they do is they inject ozone
because ozone is a gas
that will kill any bug.
And so they clean out the
mush, inject the ozone,
it goes out and sterilizes
the area temporarily.
It will always, of
course, come back
if you don't do something else.
And then they draw blood
out of the arm, put it
in a centrifuge, and then the
fibrin that's in the blood
collects in the middle.
You reach in with
tweezers, pull it out,
it's kind of a little golden
looking gelatinous stuff.
Cut a chunk of that off and
stuff it down in the hole.
That's called
platelet rich fibrin,
and platelet rich
fibrin contains
all of the chemicals
that tell a bone to heal.
So now, that bone will
fairly quickly heal.
And once it's healed, you go
back and put the implant in.
What you want to
do, though, is you
want to be sure you get an
implant where the screws are
made of zirconium, which is
a synthetic diamond, which
is an electron neutral
because the titanium post,
or screws-- all metals
are electrons stealers,
and so they will
lower the voltage
in the bone around
them, and they're
much more prone to get
infected around the screw
than zirconium.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
I'm glad I asked you about that.
We just have really
a short time left,
and there's so much
more to talk about.
OK, this is an area
of your book it's
interesting-- I
found it interesting,
anyway-- maybe just
hop through it quickly
and then we'll do a route.
Which is, why is that we
can just simply generate
new parts like a salamander.
>>DR. TENNANT:
Well Robert Becker
was an orthopedic surgeon who
was interested in that subject.
He recognized that in the human,
if you lose a chunk of bone
you'll grow some more bone.
But if you lose a
chunk of anything else,
you replace it with a scar.
>>REGINA: Like a
finger top like me.
>>DR. TENNANT:
And so he wondered
why is it that the human
can make more bone,
but can't make
more anything else.
And he studied the salamander
because the salamander has
all the same body
parts as a human,
but they can regrow
most anything.
So you pluck out a salamander's
eye, he grows a new one.
You cut off his army, he
grows a new one, et cetera.
So Becker began to study
this, and one of the things
that he noticed is
that, first of all,
if you measure the
voltage in a salamander,
it runs at minus 10 millivolts
instead of the minus 25
millivolts that a human does.
So he starts at 10 millivolts.
You cut off, the voltage
very quickly drops down
to about plus 20 or so.
And then, once that happens,
it stimulates the duplication
of stem cells.
And pretty soon, the
stump is-- the end
of a stump is covered
with stem cells,
and they call this the blastema.
And when that happens-- when
the stem cells are there
and start to grow, the voltage
kicks back up to about minus 20
or so, but double
the normal voltage,
and then the salamander
starts growing a new arm.
And then, once it
grows a new arm--
which takes about 60 days-- then
everything goes back to normal.
Well an interesting
corollary is you
take a frog, who's
also an amphibian,
doesn't have that same power.
When you cut off a
frog's leg, it just
ends up with a scarred stump.
But one of Becker's
residents did that to a frog,
but embedded a watch battery in
the stump and he grew an arm.
>>REGINA: So voltage.
>>DR. TENNANT: So voltage
is the stimulus that
tells stem cells to activate.
Now that's both good and bad
because-- we don't have time
to do it, obviously,
today, but what
you're going to find in another
book that will come out soon
is that all malignancies
are from stem cells
and that the stimulus
that makes them activate
is, again, our friend
voltage and the clarity
of that voltage.
>>REGINA: OK.
I don't normally
do this too much,
but because usually
you're so darn brilliant--
thank you for educating us.
You've also taken the time to
do this in a functional way,
and you started putting your
own product lines together
because you are finding
that your patients just
didn't want to take a
fistful of pills every day,
and it's modeled on
the notion of what
is going to create
healthy cells and maintain
the life of healthy cells.
And so you started
putting things together--
and you touched on this
earlier-- one of the things
that we have to have if we're
having some chronic illness,
for example, is,
for example, iodine.
And you put together iodine
in a little bit different way.
Just tell us about that
because people listening you
may well want to go to your
website and find out what is it
you're giving your
clients and is it working.
So just give us a
sketch of all that.
>>DR. TENNANT: Sure.
You remember I told you
that to make new cells,
you have to have the voltage.
You have to have everything
it takes to make a cell,
and then you have to
deal with the toxins that
can damage them.
The voltage piece we
have only just begun,
but done some of
it, where you have
to figure out why you can't
hold a charge and then fix it.
For the nutritional
piece, you have
to have everything it takes.
If a tornado comes through
and blows this building down
and we have to
build it back but we
don't have any doors,
windows, or shingles
it's not a good building.
And so it is with cells,
you have to have everything.
And to get everything,
I was having
to have my patients
take 20 pills every day.
And I was frustrated with
those because a lot of them
had toxins in them.
Like, every tablet contains
magnesium stearate--
>>REGINA: I know.
It's so hard to find
stuff without it.
>>DR. TENNANT: It's-- well, do
I take the toxin because I need
the substance.
So what I did was I went
through the physiology books
and I wrote down everything that
cells need that I could find,
and I went to a
biochemist and said,
I want to put all of
this in one bucket.
But no preservatives, no
toxins, and everything
has to be natural.
And so we came up with a
product that has all of that,
but we couldn't put the iodine
in because the iodine would
oxidize-- it's
sitting on the shelf--
but the iodine itself
has B1, iodine, zinc,
and selenium, and fulvic because
zinc isn't absorbed easily
without fulvic.
So anyway, I have
this system now
that takes care of
the nutrition piece.
And if you do the whole system--
not just a piece of it--
do the whole system, then
we've-- then all we have
to think about is
voltage and toxins.
>>REGINA: OK.
So toxins-- we know
there are some ways
to start chelating
them out of our body,
and some of the heavy metals.
>>DR. TENNANT: Chelation
is not a great way
to do it, by the way.
>>REGINA: No, I'm just saying
that in a casual way, OK?
Casual way.
Natural ways of chelating the
stuff out, dragging the toxins
out of the body.
Let's just go to the other
part, which is the voltage part.
How important is it
to move our muscles?
>>DR. TENNANT: Well that's
one of the basic ways we're
designed to recharge our
personal battery pack
is to move.
So exercise is not just
to get your lymphatics
moving, which it does, but
perhaps the most important
thing exercise does is it
recharges your personal battery
pack.
>>REGINA: So--
and we need water.
All batteries have
to have fluid.
>>DR. TENNANT: And minerals.
>>REGINA: We need
nutrients, which--
the product you're talking
about, for example,
have all these nutrients,
and minerals, and such in it.
And then we need to, then,
detox the body of heavy metals
and the things that are
impacting our voltage, right?
Pretty much it?
>>DR. TENNANT: Yeah.
But basic is always voltage.
You have to fix the
voltage, and that should not
surprise if you think about it.
When we say the
word voltage, we're
talking about energy that is
stored and available to do
something.
So obviously everything in
the universe is about energy,
and the difference between
being dead and alive
is, guess what, is there
voltage in your body.
>>REGINA: Is there
any voltage, right.
>>DR. TENNANT: The way
we know you're dead
is we hook electrodes
up and there's
no brainwaves left, which
means there's no voltage left.
>>REGINA: No voltage left.
Wow.
Thank you so much.
I mean, it's taken a
while to get you here
because you're a busy man, you
actually work for a living.
You're not just an author.
And perhaps when
the new book's out,
we'll have you back around in
another six months or a year
or something like that.
But I just want to thank you
for the work you're doing.
And we were all
talking off camera,
and I think everybody in the
building and behind the camera
here is ready to
get onto your site
and find out what's going on.
So I want to thank
you, and then for you
the site-- the best site to
go to is tennantinstitute.com.
Right?
>>DR. TENNANT: Yes.
>>REGINA: OK.
So fabulous subject.
Tenantinstitute.com.
Also, you can familiarize
yourself with subject
by going to Amazon
and picking up
a copy of "Healing is Voltage."
Really groundbreaking work.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Gaiam TV.
[THEME MUSIC]